---
title: Cloud re-init
date: "2020-08-17T15:33:33+02:00"
tags:
- cloudinit
- raspberrypi
- ubuntu
---

Thanks to my recent experience with not having a proper work machine  I decided I wanted to set up a little RaspberryPI that I could use for coding in Go, Rust, Python etc. even from my iPad.

Ideally I’d connect to it via ethernet but as a fallback it should simply open a tunnel to one of my publicly reachable servers. SSH for the win.

At a recent trip I spent a bit of time to analyse the captive portal of the environment there and created a little script that would simply log into the session every couple of minutes. 

I was also reminded that the whole idea of cloud-init scripts on things like the RaspberryPIs was that they’d only be applied *once*. I somehow hoped that at least the `network-config` would be applied with *every* boot by the configuration shipped with Ubuntu Server. Took me a day to figure that out since I didn’t have an USB keyboard with me  😅 Since I had missed the opportunity to configure eth0 properly I needed to reset the whole device, but that took only 30 minutes or so thanks to Ansible playbooks I already had in place.

##  How does it work?

Anyway, how is cloud-init configured to take the initial config from the system-boot partition of the SDCard and how can configure it to read that configuration for *every* boot? Since I'm especially interested in the network configuration, I'll focus on that part here that also involves the netplan configuration.

The initial configuration is taken from the system-boot partition which is the first one on the SD card:

	(parted) print all
	Model: SD SC128 (sd/mmc)
	Disk /dev/mmcblk0: 128GB
	Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
	Partition Table: msdos
	Disk Flags:
	
	Number  Start   End    Size   Type     File system  Flags
	 1      1049kB  269MB  268MB  primary  fat32        boot, lba
	 2      269MB   128GB  128GB  primary  ext4
	

Sadly, it seems like parted cannot display the label of a partition, so let’s do that with `e2label`:

	$ e2label /dev/mmcblk0p1
	e2label: Bad magic number in super-block while trying to open /dev/mmcblk0p1
	/dev/mmcblk0p1 contains a vfat file system labelled 'system-boot'

When Ubuntu boots, it also starts a cloud-init service which takes its configuration from the files inside the `/etc/cloud` folder. Among these there is also `/etc/cloud/cloud.cfg.d/99-fake_cloud.cfg` which has the following content:

	# configure cloud-init for NoCloud
	datasource_list: [ NoCloud, None ]
	datasource:
	  NoCloud:
	    fs_label: system-boot

This defines, that cloud-init should use only the datasource `NoCloud` which is the filesystem on the `system-boot` partition. Mounting this partition (it is automatically mounted into `/boot/firmware`) reveals the same content as you’d get if you plug the SDCard into a Mac or Windows PC:

	$ cd /boot/firmware
	$ ls
	...
	config.txt
	...
	network-config
	...
	usercfg.txt

For me of particular interest is the `network-config` file. When does cloud-init load that and could I convince it to *always* load it during booting and not just for the first time?

Let’s say, we add another WiFi configuration to the network-config for the access point “HotSpot” without any password. The goal is, that this new configuration shows up inside `/etc/netplan/50-cloud-init.yaml` which is generated by cloud-init with the information from the `network-config` file of the boot partition.

## It’s everything or nothing!

Sadly, I couldn’t find a proper way to only re-run only the network-part of cloud-init on every boot. `cloud-init clean` removes all locks and semaphores but that’s also the problem: it removes *all* state which also means that the user-scripts etc. are executed again.

When I run `cloud-init clean` and reboot the machine the network configuration is updated. If the user-data part of the cloud-init configuration is empty, then that’s also it. I can live with that.


## What about host keys?

The removal of all state in cloud-init also means that the host keys will be regenerated during the next boot. This was extremely annoying and so I removed the `ssh` module from the modules-configuration inside `/etc/cloud/cloud.cfg`:

	# The modules that run in the 'init' stage
	cloud_init_modules:
	 - migrator
	 - seed_random
	 - bootcmd
	 - write-files
	 - growpart
	 - resizefs
	 - disk_setup
	 - mounts
	 - set_hostname
	 - update_hostname
	 - update_etc_hosts
	 - ca-certs
	 - rsyslog
	 - users-groups
	 #- ssh

## Auto-cleaning

So now I’m left with one point on the todo list: How can I run `cloud-init clean` after every successful run of cloud-init?

For me the easiest approach was to just create a oneshot service that should be run *after* cloud-final:

	[Unit]
	Description=Reset cloud-init state
	After=cloud-final.service cloud-init.service cloud-init-local.service
	
	[Service]
	Type=oneshot
	ExecStart=/usr/bin/cloud-init clean
	KillMode=process
	
	StandardOutput=journal+console
	
	[Install]
	WantedBy=cloud-init.target

That’s pretty much it! Now I have a RaspberryPI with an SDCard where I can configure the network before every boot. This means that I can easily hang it into pretty much any WiFi without first having to boot and configure it via ethernet 🙂 

It’s probably not the cleanest approach to get there but I was too lazy to dig deeper or write a custom system that *only* exposed the network configuration. The SDCard is, in any case, the biggest attack surface here no matter what part of the cloud-init configuration is read from it (hint: everything in any case). As for private data: LUKS FTW 😅

As a next step, I want to finalise the SSH tunnel setup so that I have a known entry point. More on that hopefully another time 😅
