# Features I need in an e-mail client

Giles Turnbull forwarded on [O'Reilly's Mac DevCenter Blog](http://www.oreillynet.com/mac/blog/2006/06/what_would_you_like_from_a_new.html) a request by [Kiwi](http://www.theronge.com/kiwi/)'s developer Matt Ronge for some features people want in their e-mail client. 

-------------------------------



Well, so here is a small listing of features I'd need before I switch anywhere from Thunderbird:



* Support for HTTP/HTTPS and Socks5 proxies (thanks to ISP restrictions)

* Better conversation support compared to Thunderbird esp. for mailing lists (actually something like on gmail would be nice)

* Full-text indexing or at least tagging

* Plain-old POP3 support as long as gmail doesn't offer SMTP ;)

* Growl

* An open storage system



I think this should be it. For me esp. Socks5 and general proxy support is very important considering that this was also the main reason why I never could really try out Apple's Mail.app. You might notice, that I don't list a spam filter. I started deleting any mail I'm not interested in anyway, so spam filtering is something that I could entrust the server with ;) Sure, spam filtering is nice, but there are already enough frameworks out there. Perhaps some interface to some of them would be nice.



Honestly, I really like the idea behind Kiwi, offering a basic client and let out people implement whatever they want on top of it. I'm actually quite curious how this will work out esp. considering a performance comparison between Lua and JavaScript (as the Mozilla Foundation uses it for their extensible frameworks). The whole thing might really get nice :D