# Tags or Categories

Since quite some time I have a small problem: I always fight with myself about in what category/categories I should put every single post I make here. Now that I'm using Flickr for more than a week now and also have been using del.icio.us for quite some time I've become more and more used to tag photos/links/whatever instead of putting them into categories. I've already integrated (and stopped using :-? ) technorati tags a few months ago ... But hey, why did I stop using them? Quite simple: They had no real use to me since I already have categories and I'm far too lazy to enter everything twice ;-)

-------------------------------



After using tagging based services for some time now I'm currently thinking about removing the categories here as well and replace them with tags. The problem here is, that I don't want to only replace categories with tags but also to emulate the query-functionality available for example on del.icio.us. There you can do for example this:



<pre class="command">http://del.icio.us/zeroK/css+webdesign</pre>



I'm currently not even sure if and how I will realize this. Step one for me is "tags" and step ... ok, let's call it n+1 would be quite query functionality.



While adding technorati tags I also wrote a small script that queries the list of tags used and displays them in <a href="http://www.technorati.com/tags/">that stylish way</a> we all learned to .... love or hate *g* This interface currently only operates on the technorati tags but I will probably start to use it in the future also for my own tags (which I will somehow merge with the technorati tags I've previously used here). The biggest problem I see for this migration is not to touch the core of WordPress to get this done.



As can be seen in my own tags-site listed below I've written my own query to get all posts that had the specified tag. But I want more: I want that the category-listing of WP is used for this. Since I've currently only limited time during the week I will probably start with this this weekend (since I can't add my feed to feedburner I even have more time this weekend *g*). I'm really curious how hard this will be :-)



Some examples:

<ul>

<li><a href="http://radar.oreilly.com/">O'Reilly Radar</a></li>

<li><a href="http://weblog.zerokspot.com/tags/">Tags on zerokspot.com</a></li>

</ul>