# The language dilemma

As all of you should have noticed by now: English is not my native language and I somehow doubt that I'm even good in it. So why do I blog in it? Quite simple: Whenever I search the web for information I'm looking for articles written in German or English simply because I can't read anything else.

And this has also become my main motivation for writing my weblog in English. This way I can reach much more people ... not that my content is really _that_ intersting but anyway. But this approach also has its downside, esp. for me: I'm far better in expressing myself in my native language (who isn't?) and I often think twice before I write a new post in English simply because it's not as easy for me as writing the same post in German would be. Sometimes this might be a good thing since it's like a filter pushing some crap back into the queue, but sometimes not.



-------------------------------



If you're someone who's been reading this weblog for some time now you will have noticed that every now and then I think about also making a German weblog or do some other mixed language blogging. It's again this time of the year. But how to decide in what language a certain post should be written now? Should I write posts that are probably intersting for my "local" friends in German? Would this be enough content to justify another Wordpress/Drupal/Txp/... installation? And simply making a translation of each post to the other weblog is too much work for my taste.

Yesterday night ... or today I read [this post by shar israel](http://redcouch.typepad.com/weblog/2006/01/the_usually_int.html) which somehow made me think about this whole issue again. I'm not really a weblogging expert but at least as far as I can tell the German blogosphere is alive. Otherwise there wouldn't be so many German RSS feeds in my feedlist ;) And then I read following comment by [Alexander](http://jurabilis.blogspot.com/)

<blockquote>And many people - like myself - find it more and more gratifying to just blog in english, which is a dangerous development.</blockquote>

Yes, exactly what I'm thinking except for the "gratifying" perhaps as it's for me more like a compromise. Dangerous because (to exaggerate a little bit) if we continue this way, the German language will not make it into Web2.0 at all, something that is IMO combined with a loss of the German culture on the net as a whole. But don't worry, I won't go down this road now.

To sum it up: I think I have only two real alternatives: 

1. Blog in German
2. Blog in English

Sure, making translations every now and then to the other language is certainly possible (similiar to what is currently happening on the [werbeblogger.de](http://www.werbeblogger.de/) with the whole Heidi Klum problematic) but writing every post in two languages is (as I've already written) too much hassle. I honestly don't really know what I should do about this ... arghh.